.. _conntrack-sync:

##############
Conntrack Sync
##############

One of the important features built on top of the Netfilter framework is
connection tracking. Connection tracking allows the kernel to keep track of all
logical network connections or sessions, and thereby relate all of the packets
which may make up that connection. NAT relies on this information to translate
all related packets in the same way, and iptables can use this information to
act as a stateful firewall.

The connection state however is completely independent of any upper-level
state, such as TCP's or SCTP's state. Part of the reason for this is that when
merely forwarding packets, i.e. no local delivery, the TCP engine may not
necessarily be invoked at all. Even connectionless-mode transmissions such as
UDP, IPsec (AH/ESP), GRE and other tunneling protocols have, at least, a pseudo
connection state. The heuristic for such protocols is often based upon a preset
timeout value for inactivity, after whose expiration a Netfilter connection is
dropped.

Each Netfilter connection is uniquely identified by a (layer-3 protocol, source
address, destination address, layer-4 protocol, layer-4 key) tuple. The layer-4
key depends on the transport protocol; for TCP/UDP it is the port numbers, for
tunnels it can be their tunnel ID, but otherwise is just zero, as if it were
not part of the tuple. To be able to inspect the TCP port in all cases, packets
will be mandatorily defragmented.

It is possible to use either Multicast or Unicast to sync conntrack traffic.
Most examples below show Multicast, but unicast can be specified by using the
"peer" keywork after the specificed interface, as in the following example:

:cfgcmd:`set service conntrack-sync interface eth0 peer 192.168.0.250`

*************
Configuration
*************

.. cfgcmd:: set service conntrack-sync accept-protocol

    Accept only certain protocols: You may want to replicate the state of flows
    depending on their layer 4 protocol.

    Protocols are: tcp, sctp, dccp, udp, icmp and ipv6-icmp.

.. cfgcmd:: set service conntrack-sync event-listen-queue-size <size>

    The daemon doubles the size of the netlink event socket buffer size if it
    detects netlink event message dropping. This clause sets the maximum buffer
    size growth that can be reached.

    Queue size for listening to local conntrack events in MB.

.. cfgcmd:: set service conntrack-sync expect-sync <all|ftp|h323|nfs|sip|sqlnet>

    Protocol for which expect entries need to be synchronized.

.. cfgcmd:: set service conntrack-sync failover-mechanism vrrp sync-group <group>

    Failover mechanism to use for conntrack-sync.

    Only VRRP is supported. Required option.

.. cfgcmd:: set service conntrack-sync ignore-address <x.x.x.x>

    IP addresses or networks for which local conntrack entries will not be synced

.. cfgcmd:: set service conntrack-sync interface <name>

    Interface to use for syncing conntrack entries.

.. cfgcmd:: set service conntrack-sync interface <name> port <port>

   Port number used by connection.

.. cfgcmd:: set service conntrack-sync listen-address <ipv4address>

   Local IPv4 addresses for service to listen on.

.. cfgcmd:: set service conntrack-sync mcast-group <x.x.x.x>

    Multicast group to use for syncing conntrack entries.

    Defaults to 225.0.0.50.

.. cfgcmd:: set service conntrack-sync interface <name> peer <address>

    Peer to send unicast UDP conntrack sync entires to, if not using Multicast
    configuration from above above.

.. cfgcmd:: set service conntrack-sync sync-queue-size <size>

    Queue size for syncing conntrack entries in MB.

.. cfgcmd:: set service conntrack-sync disable-external-cache

   This diable the external cache and directly injects the flow-states into the
   in-kernel Connection Tracking System of the backup firewall.

.. cfgcmd:: set service conntrack-sync disable-syslog

   Disable connection logging via Syslog.

.. cfgcmd:: set service conntrack-sync startup-resync

   Order conntrackd to request a complete conntrack table resync against
   the other node at startup.

*********
Operation
*********

.. opcmd:: show conntrack table ipv4

  Make sure conntrack is enabled by running and show connection tracking table.

  .. code-block:: none

    vyos@vyos:~$ show conntrack table ipv4
    TCP state codes: SS - SYN SENT, SR - SYN RECEIVED, ES - ESTABLISHED,
                     FW - FIN WAIT, CW - CLOSE WAIT, LA - LAST ACK,
                     TW - TIME WAIT, CL - CLOSE, LI - LISTEN

    CONN ID    Source                 Destination            Protocol         TIMEOUT
    1015736576 10.35.100.87:58172     172.31.20.12:22        tcp [6] ES       430279
    1006235648 10.35.101.221:57483    172.31.120.21:22       tcp [6] ES       413310
    1006237088 10.100.68.100          172.31.120.21          icmp [1]         29
    1015734848 10.35.100.87:56282     172.31.20.12:22        tcp [6] ES       300
    1015734272 172.31.20.12:60286     239.10.10.14:694       udp [17]         29
    1006239392 10.35.101.221          172.31.120.21          icmp [1]         29

  .. note::
  
    If the table is empty and you have a warning message, it means
    conntrack is not enabled. To enable conntrack, just create a NAT or a firewall
    rule. :cfgcmd:`set firewall state-policy established action accept`

.. opcmd:: show conntrack-sync cache external

  Show connection syncing external cache entries

.. opcmd:: show conntrack-sync cache internal

  Show connection syncing internal cache entries

.. opcmd:: show conntrack-sync statistics

  Retrieve current statistics of connection tracking subsystem.

  .. code-block:: none

    vyos@vyos:~$ show conntrack-sync statistics
    Main Table Statistics:

    cache internal:
    current active connections:            19606
    connections created:                 6298470    failed:            0
    connections updated:                 3786793    failed:            0
    connections destroyed:               6278864    failed:            0

    cache external:
    current active connections:            15771
    connections created:                 1660193    failed:            0
    connections updated:                   77204    failed:            0
    connections destroyed:               1644422    failed:            0

    traffic processed:
                       0 Bytes                         0 Pckts

    multicast traffic (active device=eth0.5):
               976826240 Bytes sent            212898000 Bytes recv
                 8302333 Pckts sent              2009929 Pckts recv
                       0 Error send                    0 Error recv

    message tracking:
                       0 Malformed msgs                  263 Lost msgs


.. opcmd:: show conntrack-sync status

  Retrieve current status of connection tracking subsystem.

  .. code-block:: none

    vyos@vyos:~$ show conntrack-sync status
    sync-interface        : eth0.5
    failover-mechanism    : vrrp [sync-group GEFOEKOM]
    last state transition : no transition yet!
    ExpectationSync       : disabled


*******
Example
*******

The next example is a simple configuration of conntrack-sync.

.. figure:: /_static/images/service_conntrack_sync-schema.png
   :scale: 60 %
   :alt: Conntrack Sync Example

Now configure conntrack-sync service on ``router1`` **and** ``router2``

.. code-block:: none

  set high-availablilty vrrp group internal virtual-address ... etc ...
  set high-availability vrrp sync-group syncgrp member 'internal'
  set service conntrack-sync accept-protocol 'tcp'
  set service conntrack-sync accept-protocol 'udp'
  set service conntrack-sync accept-protocol 'icmp'
  set service conntrack-sync failover-mechanism vrrp sync-group 'syncgrp'
  set service conntrack-sync interface 'eth0'
  set service conntrack-sync mcast-group '225.0.0.50'

On the active router, you should have information in the internal-cache of
conntrack-sync. The same current active connections number should be shown in
the external-cache of the standby router

On active router run:

.. code-block:: none

  $ show conntrack-sync statistics

  Main Table Statistics:

  cache internal:
  current active connections:               10
  connections created:                    8517    failed:            0
  connections updated:                     127    failed:            0
  connections destroyed:                  8507    failed:            0

  cache external:
  current active connections:                0
  connections created:                       0    failed:            0
  connections updated:                       0    failed:            0
  connections destroyed:                     0    failed:            0

  traffic processed:
                     0 Bytes                         0 Pckts

  multicast traffic (active device=eth0):
                868780 Bytes sent               224136 Bytes recv
                 20595 Pckts sent                14034 Pckts recv
                     0 Error send                    0 Error recv

  message tracking:
                     0 Malformed msgs                    0 Lost msgs

On standby router run:

.. code-block:: none


  $ show conntrack-sync statistics

  Main Table Statistics:

  cache internal:
  current active connections:                0
  connections created:                       0    failed:            0
  connections updated:                       0    failed:            0
  connections destroyed:                     0    failed:            0

  cache external:
  current active connections:               10
  connections created:                     888    failed:            0
  connections updated:                     134    failed:            0
  connections destroyed:                   878    failed:            0

  traffic processed:
                     0 Bytes                         0 Pckts

  multicast traffic (active device=eth0):
                234184 Bytes sent               907504 Bytes recv
                 14663 Pckts sent                21495 Pckts recv
                     0 Error send                    0 Error recv

  message tracking:
                     0 Malformed msgs                    0 Lost msgs

